Here are the formatted subtitles:
---
The most revolutionary breakthrough
of this age is the collective
inner transformation
of the human being.
This is the next stage
in our evolution.
The forth to mention that will
awaken us to become
highly evolved human beings
with the ability,
to have no more personality,
that can save ourselves
and save our world…
It is an honour to present
Shri Mataji Nirmala Devi,
world spiritual leader and founder
of Sahaja Yoga.
Please join us a reel women
for the forth to mention
of evolution.
It is time now in our evolution
to introspect deeply
into the problems of
modern human being
and to find an answer
and a solution
for inner and global peace…
If we are to avoid
our own self-destruction,
in a cleric world then we must
limit the Science,
rationality, religion, power
and money has left us wanting
all of us…
Rich, Poor, Black and White…
And we have looked for truth
in all the wrong places
But these are special times…
The Blossom Times!
That has been prophesied
in all the ancient texts.
It is the last judgement,
the age of Aquarius
and is the profound opportunity
to enter the fourth dimension
Where we can become highly evolved
spiritual beings
and to know on our
central nervous system
And we can prove God
like a science.
It is a deep honour to present
Shri Mataji Nirmala Devi
who is the world spiritual leader,
Who has travelled all over the world
to give en-mass self-realisation
to thousands.
She is here to talk about
the new and long-awaited book…
Meta Modern Era…
Welcome, Shri Mataji!
It is so wonderful to have you!
It is hard to pronounce
Meta Modern era.
What does it mean?
Meta Modern Era…
The modern era is the present times.
And meta is beyond that.
What is beyond that?
To go beyond the mind!
No, No not mind.
Beyond this time.
What is beyond this time
We expect…
What is the goal of writing
the book?
What is it you want to achieve?
And What did you want to say?
I wanted to tell them,
about the power you all have…
All of you…
Whether you belong to one religion
or to another.
Whether you are White, Yellow,
Red, anything you may be…
It's not skin deep.
It is very deep within us
in the triangular bone
called as Sacrum.
That shows that even the Greeks
knew that it is a sacrum bone…
There is a power you all have…
All of you have the power
which if it is awakened,
you achieve the fourth dimension
of your personality.
But the problem that exists today
in this world
is because our heritage comes
from the Animal Kingdom.
And we have many things
which belong to the animals.
The worst thing is that we have
also thinking power and rationality
so we justify even
whatever we do wrong.
So even it is worse than
animal stage sometimes…
Yes, you call Rationality
the curse of modern man.
Of course, Rationality
can explain everything.
You may do any wrong and it
explains that it is all right…
I mean that's how it is.
It is very dangerous.
The people like Floyd,
they made rational everything.
Like then it is emotional,
the human being is going to be
a spiritual being and that happens
when this power within you rises…
through six centres,
pierces through your fontanel
bone area and connects to your
all-pervading power of divine love.
Now that is called as 'Ruh'
by some people…
In the Bible, it is written as
'Cool Breeze of the Holy Ghost'
and in other scriptures also
it is described very clearly
especially in Indian Scriptures
as 'Param Chaitanya'.
But the trouble with human beings
is that they are capable
of spoiling anything.
If they go to a forest,
it will be all clean, nicely,
preserved sort of a thing.
But once a human being enters there
you start spoiling it…
You say that even in America
we have 200 years of history
and in such a short time
we have made such a massive hit.
You call it a Coca-Cola culture.
Why did you call that, Mother?
You see the culture is more
money-oriented…
Somehow you should get money…
I mean it goes to such an extent
that people think killing is alright
for money, doing anything
is alright for money…
Money has its own purpose
but it is not for the destruction…
It is for the construction
of human being
and it's not so important also…
See it is the thing that
we don't have the satisfaction…
Today we want to buy a car,
alright,
for that we will work hard,
save money, buy one car.
But after buying it
there is no satisfaction,
then you want to build a house!
Then you go from one to another,
never ever enjoying
what you have achieved…
Isn't that Slavery, Mother?
Slavery to advertising…
No, No, due to greed…
Greed in human being.
And this Greed comes to us
from ancient things like Inheritance…
But they are satisfied…
Animals are satisfied at a point
but we are not.
We are very Greedy,
and we start running after this greed
that has no end.
This also makes us
a little bit competitive
and all kinds of things come in…
And all kinds of cruelties
come in too.
Rich people think they are
superior to others,
but it's not so.
Because it has not given
them satisfaction…
Whatever they have,
they are not satisfied.
That's the first thing that shows
that they are not very much higher
in their awareness…
With this happening,
it passes through the six centres.
Now, these six centres are
responsible for our physical,
mental, emotional and spiritual
being all of them…
So when she rises,
this power which is the Kundalini,
which is your individual Mother,
She knows everything about you,
She knows your past,
She knows your hankering,
She knows your aspirations,
everything…
She has tape-recorded it,
and when She awakens and rises
above the six centres…
What happens is that
the centres get enlightened…
Then they get integrated…
And when it pierces through
the fontanel bone area
it becomes one with this
all-pervading power…
Now we have all these beautiful
flowers here
but we just take them
for granted.
We just don't understand
how different flowers are grown
differently in a different manner
from the same soil…
How does our mother earth
do all this miracle?
Or we see our heart running
and we ask a doctor…
Who is running our heart…
He will say it is an
autonomous nervous system…
But if you ask who is this auto…
they can't answer…
There is a scientific culture…
We need proof of everything.
That's all right!
You can prove it.
We can prove it?
Yes, We can prove everything.
Whatever I am saying…
Can be proved.
But you must turn your eyes
to the truth also…
To find out what is the truth
really…
In a sincere manner
you can find out…
For example, the scientist himself
said that there is a Torsion area
beyond our mind,
means beyond rationality.
There is a torsion area.
And if you can reach
that torsion area
you can get the truth before you,
and that can be verified
by science.
He himself was so tired
finding out the theory of relativity.
In the laboratory he was searching
and was so tired,
so he went into the garden
and was playing with soap bubbles…
And there he says suddenly
from somewhere unknown
this theory dawned upon me…
It happens to all the scientists
but they don't know the area.
He has precisely called it
as the Torsion area.
Didn't it happen to you too,
Mother?
Didn't it happen to you
by a tree in your meditation,
like you discovered
en-mass realisation?
I was born like this…
I should say.
So nothing happened that way.
But I was more anxious
about one thing.
That I said this state
must be reached…
This stage of self-knowledge
and self-realisation
by everyone in this world…
That was my research,
or I should say
that was my greatest desire,
so I tried to study
human beings in a subtle way…
What's the problem with them?
Because formerly only one person
could get self-realisation
among thousands of them,
and that was the tradition —
to give it to one person only…
So then I thought
why not everyone,
because unless and until
everyone gets it,
it's not going to work out well
for the one who gets it,
because you have seen all saints
have been tortured, troubled,
crucified,
because others did not know
what it was.
So they thought
he is talking something rubbish.
Whatever it is…
So it has to happen
to the collective.
Thus I tried to find out
about human beings.
Luckily my father was
a very social person,
my husband also.
As a result, I found out in 1970
the method by which
you can give a mass-realisation.
And for that mass realisation
I started working with one lady,
to begin with…
Gradually it started growing.
Now they tell me
72 nations are following…
Are you surprised at how many
people are practising Sahaja Yoga?
Did you expect this?
Only I thought that
if it works, it will work!
But I expect more to come now.
What is this very special
time period?
Is it called Krita Yuga?
What does that mean?
The cycle of Krita Yuga?
Yes, a very special time period.
That is why I called it Krita Yuga.
See, the first was 'Kalyuga',
which was the worst of all…
They are described
in the Shastras also.
But they didn't go that far.
They didn't visit America to see.
At the most, they said
that the children will answer back
their parents and all that
was written…
But if you come to America
you will realize
it's a completely very dangerous
picture of the 'Kalyuga'…
After 'Kalyuga', comes 'Krita Yuga'
where this all-pervading power
starts working out…
through human beings…
That's started in the beginning,
and then after that
will come 'Satyuga'.
I think the Satyuga
has also started…
Where everything
will be exposed…
Falsehood, everything…
Yes.
Shri Mataji, people in America
are crazy for this Y2K…
They think this is
the end of the world.
They think that once 2000 comes
all the computers will start erasing.
We are going to have the end…
And people are preparing,
building walls
and arming themselves for war…
This is going on…
What do you say about that?
No, No…
You see our creator who has created
us is not going to allow
this destruction.
Of course, this is
the last judgement,
so those who do not rise above
their human awareness
might be lost,
but not people who are achieving
their greater awareness…
They won't be lost.
And our creator himself
has placed this great power within us
to have our ascent into
this fourth dimension.
So world peace is possible, Mother?
Of course, I mean,
when this happens to you,
you become extremely peaceful…
Now look at our thoughts!
They come from the future sometimes,
from the past,
and we dance in the cusp
of those thoughts.
All the time we are dancing.
We cannot stop thinking.
But when this power rises,
She elongates them
and there is a space in between —
that is the space of the present
where you are silent…
You watch everything,
you react to nothing,
you just absorb, absorb it…
For example —
I see a beautiful carpet here,
so I look at it,
how beautiful it is!
I am having all the enjoyment
of the artist who created it…
But I don't go on thinking —
how much did you pay?
Where can I get it?
Or if it is mine, should we insure it?
All these nonsensical ideas
don't come…
The beauty you just start watching,
and watching the beauty
is a source of great joy to you.
So if you see a human being
who is so reactionary to everything,
they go mad…
So you have to be silent…
And when you are silent,
you are peaceful…
Unless and until there is peace
within yourself,
you can't create peace by bombs…
Can you?
So you want to transform people
and political power?
That's the hope?
That is our destiny!
Every human being has the right
to get it…
Sahaja — 'Saha' means 'with',
'ja' is 'born'.
Shri Mataji, when I met with yogis,
I was very impressed —
they have a look in their eyes…
I wanted to be like them…
I wanted to love like them,
and that is the true meaning
of Sahaja Yoga…
Yes, their eyes are glittering
and they don't fight,
they love each other,
and it is not an artificial thing…
They are just natural,
and even if they are from
different countries,
I have seen them so nicely blended,
enjoying each other,
loving each other…
They find they have found
their brothers all over…
sisters all over…
Sahaja Yoga has had many
American Breakthroughs.
Can you tell us about them, Mother?
especially in America,
they love to know
that it can cure cancer…
I have already had a hospital
in India,
and another one
we are going to have…
This is near Bombay…
Another one we are going to have
is in Delhi…
Where we treat them freely
because it is their own power.
So we can't charge them,
but for their stay and food,
of course, we charge them…
It's a very remarkable thing
which we have found out.
That most of the diseases
can be cured
by the awakening of the Kundalini,
because diseases come to you
because of the imbalance
of your centres…
With the exhaustion of the centres.
But this Kundalini,
when She rises,
She nourishes them,
and not only that,
She integrates them.
Cancer has been cured
in many people…
Has it been documented
by Scientific Research?
Of course, of course,
we have doctors,
they have documented…
Wow! Even Genes can be changed…
How many souls can be changed?
Yes, in my book
I have written about this.
And I have also written
about Phosphorous…
When there is too much phosphorous
in the body, in the genes,
because of dry temperament,
you see…
So a person becomes
very hot-tempered.
Can also get what you would call
a person who is easily irritated,
very overactive sort of a person…
But in case you get your realisation
you get so balanced…
Will you speak about women, Mother?
In the book you talk about why,
if it's so natural and so normal,
then why do we so violently
go against it?
And why do our value systems
not hold up?
See, I don't know
how they don't understand
that these things create
horrible diseases…
They are creating horrible diseases,
scientifically proved,
but still they indulge in it
because they think they have
the freedom to ruin their lives.
What can we do about it?
This kind of attitude they take.
And they are going on,
and I just don't know
how to tell them
that this is all wrong.
While you try to be moral,
which is one of the centres
which is below this Kundalini
and is the centre for morality,
that has to be alright.
And that's the one
which makes you stabilise yourself…
Now I have seen that some people
we didn't allow to be there…
Because I have great sympathy
for them
and I wanted to start
even a hospital for that…
But they are so arrogant,
they know they are going to die,
so they think they can do
whatever they want…
They shout, scream…
And they form a group to attack us…
It's impossible to make
them understand that you are sick,
you can be saved
if you try to follow Sahaja Yoga,
but they are very difficult…
Rather, the most difficult patients
I have seen…
Otherwise, other patients
are all right,
and so many diseases —
cancer and other muscular diseases —
so many other kinds of diseases
have already been cured
by Sahaja Yoga.
So first they used to come
and tell Sahaja Yogis,
so I thought better to have
hospitals!
So now we have a hospital
in Bombay, near Bombay,
there are 175 patients already…
And another one
we are starting here in Delhi.
Wonderful! Also Mother,
how can we stop
the inhumanity to a woman?
How can we stop this?
Men are inhuman to a woman,
and sometimes
the woman is inhuman to men.
It's quite a lot here, right?
You really take a stand,
Mother…
You say media is the absolute
reason for it…
For the value system going down…
I am not interested in this media
because they don't understand
how irresponsible they are!
All that goes wrong
could be blamed on them…
They don't understand
that it is a very important thing
for media to be responsible
and to understand
what they are up to.
Because money-making is the aim…
If that is the only thing
to be achieved…
What can you talk to them?
But they should understand
that they are very responsible,
heavily responsible
for all the destruction
that has taken place…
Another term —
the Law of Polarity —
you talked about in the book.
The Law of Polarity meaning?
Yes, it reacts…
If you go to one extreme
it reacts in the other extreme…
So one should not go to extremes,
in anything,
you should be in the centre…
And in many countries right now
they are suffering
from the law of polarity?
Yes, Yes, any country…
You see when it goes too much
to the extremes…
Now I would say in America —
you are alright, prosperous,
everything,
but I find everybody indebted…
I am amazed that in India also
many people, well educated,
are indebted.
They have debts on them.
So I said, why, why should
you be indebted?
This is the lifestyle — such that
they have to carry on the lifestyle
and the fad that says
this is the best…
So today they will buy furniture,
and then throw it away…
It's a style. Lifestyle, they say…
Choices you say?
Choices… So many choices!
And these choices I have discussed —
that they have choices
which have no meaning…
They go on changing for what?
I mean…
It is just to show off
that you have money.
So the reaction of polarity acts…
Then another extreme is —
too much running after money,
we neglect our children,
we neglect the family,
and all these problems
start coming up.
And if the children are neglected
they can go to any extreme…
As you have seen,
they get to violence,
they get to all kinds of things…
But children are very important
because they are future citizens…
And their preservation
is extremely important,
so I have also started
an NGO in India
where we are looking after
the children of destitute women.
We are also having
a school for them…
Already we have a school
for foreign children,
because they want to send
their children to India
to be educated.
And they have turned out to be
such beautiful children,
such good children,
very smart, very intelligent…
Always from India, the boys and girls
from our schools top the list…
Wonderful! I think it's
very important…
Really, Hitler had started
with the youth
to get control of Germany
because they were so impressionable,
so it's important to teach them
the right values!
Right values are taught also
by parents…
You see, if the parents are
all the time fighting
and there is no peace,
then children start their own ways
and go to another side.
But I can't understand
why can't we have
beautiful families?
And why can't we have people
who respect each other
and have children
who can respect them also?
Respect begets respect…
In the family, if the husband
is saying all kinds of things
to his wife,
and the wife is saying
all kinds of things…
Children become…
It is very subtle…
We don't realize
how harmful it could be…
But if you realize it,
you will try to avoid this…
No need to have
this kind of atmosphere.
Then another problem is that
this so-called affluence
makes people go crazy sometimes.
They really go crazy,
because with affluence
they take to horrible things
like drugs, alcoholism,
all kinds of things,
and then they go mad.
I have also started an NGO
for drug addicts
in a place called Kanhajohri
in North India…
I am thinking of starting
a big place
for people who are drug addicts…
And you can cure the drug addiction
overnight…
It's a fact.
This happens…
And you don't have to pay for it
because it is your own power…
So there is a place
I am trying to get
where we can accommodate people.
And I talked to the people there,
they said our government
will be happy,
but the people will be against it…
I said for what?
Because all kinds of permissions
you have to have.
But I said why?
So they said people
will go amok
and will try to destroy
the houses and all that.
I said, Kanhajohri
is such a cut-off place.
Even to walk off there
is difficult,
you can't even have
a horse ride.
So who is going to come out
of it to trouble the public?
It's a very far-fetched place…
So nothing like that
will happen.
But unnecessarily,
you create a problem —
everything that goes well,
what can be done?
Your children would be
saved entirely.
Absolutely, we have so many —
first in England, drug addicts —
When they came,
they saw just lights,
this and that…
Today they are very good
Sahaja Yogis.
They are doing very good work,
they are well educated…
It's a very different area
you entered.
You take drugs to avoid problems,
here the problems disappear.
Shri Mataji!
Sahaja Yoga is the hope
for the world…
Of course, it is, no doubt…
But unfortunately in America,
it's not so popular…
I had a lot of people who come
and ask how much it costs.
Because you don't take money,
that's why they are not interested…
I mean I can't take money,
whether you are interested or not…
But isn't it true that even 1%
of the population,
if changed,
would have such a ripple effect
on the world?
Yes, but difficult it is
that they have certain concepts
about things,
and all people who are very clever
and cunning —
more so than me —
come and exploit them,
and they like it…
They like exploitation…
We have so much more to talk about!
I thank you so much.
I know you get up very early
to come here…
And it's so wonderful…
No, I get up early always!
Thank you!
Nice to come here!
That's my pleasure!
Thank you!
May God bless you!
This is Audrey Hope,
in Reel Woman,
dedicated to life
and perspectives
that can transform our world.
Thank you so much
for joining us!